./fsx  -N 90000 -l 400m -c 100 testfile


Build the tests on ns1
	Create an account on ns1
	Create the following directories or wherever you want them.
	mkdir -p /usr/home/${USER}/obj
	mkdir -p /usr/home/${USER}/perforce/SpectraBSD/ports
	mkdir -p /usr/home/${USER}/ports/distfiles
	mkdir -p /usr/home/${USER}/var/db/ports
   
Add the following environment variables to your .profile to point to the directories created above.
	export P4CONFIG=.p4config
	export MAKEOBJDIRPREFIX=/usr/home/${USER}/obj
	export PORTSDIR=/usr/home/${USER}/perforce/SpectraBSD/ports
	export DISTDIR=/usr/home/${USER}/ports/distfiles
	export PORT_DBDIR=/usr/home/${USER}/var/db/ports
   
Create a .p4config file.
	cd /usr/home/${USER}/perforce
	vi .p4config

Add the following data to the file
	P4USER=<user>
	P4CLIENT=<user>.ns1
	P4PORT=perforce.eng:1666
   
Run the p4 client command.
	cd /usr/home/${USER}/perforce
	p4 client
Add the following View.

Root: /usr/home/<user>/perforce
	View:
       		//depot/SpectraBSD/... //<user>.ns1/SpectraBSD/...
   
Sync the following perforce configuration
	p4 sync
   
Extract the code
	cd $PORTSDIR/spectra/stf-zfs

If this is NOT your first time building you must cleanup.
	make clean
	make extract
   
Make chages
Common Files:
	Include/Exclude Tests in the following file:
		$PORTSDIR/spectra/stf-zfs/work/stf-zfs-x.x.x.xxxxxx/src/suites/fs/zfs/tests/functional/Makefile
		(comment out exclude... to run all test)
		dont run rename_dirs
		add xattr and zones to exclude list
	Specific tests:
		$PORTSDIR/spectra/stf-zfs/work/stf-zfs-x.x.x.xxxxxx/src/suites/fs/zfs/tests/functional/<test_name>
		(eg. change root to wheel in acl/setup.ksh)
   
To Build the tests with your changes NOTE YOU CAN ONLY BUILD ONCE
	cd $PORTSDIR/spectra/stf-zfs
	make
   
To clean (deletes everything you have just done)
	cd $PORTSDIR/spectra/stf-zfs
	make clean
   
Prepare to run the tests on your target machine
Install and run the redline-dev script on your Dom0. Run the following commands as root
monit stop all
zypper ar http://rpmcache.eng/vendor vendor
zypper ar http://rpmcache.eng/spectra spectra
zypper mr -e -a
zypper refresh
zypper in redline-dev
monit start all
/etc/redline/development/configure
service xenservice restart StorageDomain
   
If the configure script fails you must set up an IP Address manually
On Dom0
   xm network-attach StorageDomain bridge=xenbr0
On the StorageDomain as root
   dhclient xn1
   
Stop all uneeded services
Log onto Dom0 as root
monit stop all
Log onto the StorageDomain as root
monit stop all
The rest of these procedures should be done on the storage domain
Install the ZFS Test Procedures
Mount root filesystem as read/write mount -u -o rw /
mkdir /usr/home
Mount ns1 mount ns1.eng:/usr/home /usr/home
Set up some environment variables. (These can be put in your .profile or .bashrc file)
export P4CONFIG=.p4config
export MAKEOBJDIRPREFIX=/usr/home/<user>/obj
export PORTSDIR=/usr/home/<user>/perforce/SpectraBSD/ports
export DISTDIR=/usr/home/<user>/ports/distfiles
export PORT_DBDIR=/usr/home/<user>/var/db/ports
   
Copy a p4 executabe to /usr/local/bin if one does not exist.
Install the tests
cd /usr/home/user/perforce/SpectraBSD/ports/spectra/stf-zfs
make deinstall (This has always left some residual files so manually delete the rest)
Run
rm -rf /usr/local/SUNWstc-*
make install
   
You can now unmount ns1
umount /usr/home
Setting up the ZFS tests to run
Set up some environment variables (These can be put in your .profile or .bashrc file)
export PATH=/usr/local/SUNWstc-stf/bin/amd64:$PATH
export STF_SUITE=/usr/local/SUNWstc-fs-zfs
export STF_TOOLS=/usr/local/SUNWstc-stf
   
Mount root filesystem as read/write mount -u -o rw /
Enable procfs mount -t procfs procfs /proc
If the configure step failed and the /scratch partition was not mounted.
newfs /dev/ad2
umount /tmp
mount /dev/ad2 /tmp
If /scratch is mounted, change /scratch to /tmp and configure 
/scratch was added as part of the redline-dev install. We don't need /scratch but do need /tmp.
umount /tmp
Edit /etc/fstab. Replace /scratch with /tmp
mount /tmp
Run the following:
mkdir /tmp/var_tmp
rm -rf /var/tmp
ln -s /tmp/var_tmp /var/tmp
   
Configuring the tests
cd /usr/local/SUNWstc-fs-zfs/tests/functional
Note: You may need to modify the disk list to how many disks you have.
stf_configure -c DISKS="/dev/da0 /dev/da1 /dev/da2 /dev/da3 /dev/da4 /dev/da5 /dev/da6 /dev/da7"
   
Running the tests
time stf_execute
Running an individual test
Go to the directory which contains the test you would like to run.
stf_execute name_of_test_001_pos
eg
cd /usr/local/SUNWstc-fs-zfs/tests/functional/reservation
stf_execute reservation_001_pos
   
Modifying the tests
Suggested modifications
Add xattrs and zones to the exclude list
Changing the timeout
Run the following
cd /usr/local/SUNWstc-fs-zfs/tests/functional

grep -Rl STF_TIMEOUT= * |
