Notes on setting up p4:

Setup an environment var so p4 can find its config
* In .bashrc, add:  export P4CONFIG=.p4config
* You might want to make sure your editor is set too. (export EDITOR=/usr/bin/vim)

Copy the p4 binary to /usr/bin

Where ever you want a checkout/client/workspace....
* Create a file named .p4config
* Populate the file as follows:
*    P4USER=YOUR_USERNAME
*    P4CLIENT=WHAT_YOU_WANT_TO_CALL_THE_WORKSPACE
*    P4PORT=ns1.eng:1666

To create the client/workspace
* p4 client
* - Might want to change normdir to rmdir
* - Modify the "view" to reflect a mapping. IE:
*   //sandbox/johns/... //learningP4/...
*   note the ... meaning all files/dirs from here down.

To find files from the repo that have been modified:
* p4 diff -se
* p4 changes -s pending

To delete a pending change set:
* p4 changes -s pending 
* p4 change -d numberAsListedInPendingList

To check for files that have not yet been added to the repo:
* find . -type f | xargs p4 add -n
* find . -type f -exec p4 add -n {} \;

To wipe a local client/workspace...
* p4 client -d WORK_SPACE_NAME

Recursively add all files in a directory:
* Unix: find . -type f -print | p4 -x - add
* Windows: dir /b /s /a-d | p4 -x - add
* Mac: files -f -q -r -s | p4 -x - add

* p4 client -o  dumps the client to the console. 

p4 integrate:
* p4 integ //depot/products/zLine/domains/control/rpms/xen/... //johns_t61/users/johns/xen/bios-id/... <br />
*

Log of changes in branch.
	p4 changes -l ... | less

List branches.
	p4 branch -o 

Integrate source to branch for ONE change set (cherry picking).
while in the head of SpectraBSD-stable-8, merge head in.
	p4 integrate -b SpectraBSD-head-8 ...@517664,517664 ...@518385,@518385

Resolve the differences, accept safe changes (as)
	p4 resolve -a ...

Check for unresolved files:
	p4 resolve ...

Someone changes a file in your client view that you have open:
	p4 sync ...
	p4 resolve ...

To see outstanding changes:
	p4 changes ...
	p4 changes -s pending -u johns

To find the current client root:
	p4 info | grep "Client root" | cut -c 14-80


Creating a stream client for the new build:
	- mkdir -p p4streams/redline
	- cd p4streams/redline
	- .p4config
		* P4USER=johns
		* P4CLIENT=johns_redline
		* P4PORT=perforce.eng:1666
		* P4EDITOR=vi
	- p4 client -S //redline/main
	- p4 sync

To build with the new stream, 
	- Make sure you can ssh root@ns1.end 'ls'  without a password
		* append your id_rsa.pub to ns1:/root/.ssh/authorized_keys
	- From the SpectraBSD folder:
		* ../tools/build/spectra_build -d spectrabsd_strat_9:build
		
Identifying line by line history of a file:
	- p4 annotate -i //file/path/ | less
